---
title: Changes in PrestaShop 1.7.5
menuTitle: Changes in 1.7.5
---

Notable changes in PrestaShop 1.7.5
=======

## LazyArrays

Starting with PrestaShop 1.7.5, the business objects (Product, Order...) available on the front-office are `LazyArray` instances. If your module relies on data available in the hook parameters or in the template, you may be concerned by this update.

They used to be `arrays` with all the data available. This change has been introduced to load the needed properties of an object only when requested, and globally improve the performance of the front-office.

Getting properties from the object should not change between first versions of PS 1.7 and 1.7.5.

However it appeared that some modules, especially the ones with a high compatibility range like PrestaShop 1.6 & 1.7, apply an array cast when the variable in not an array. **Casting these variables as arrays on PS 1.7.5+ will throw notices when getting their properties.**


|    | 1.6 | 1.7.0+ | 1.7.5+ |
|----|-----|--------|--------|
| Variable type / class | `ObjectModel` | `array` | `PrestaShop\PrestaShop\Adapter\Presenter\AbstractLazyArray` |
| Getting a property | `{(array)$var}['id']` or `$var->id` | `$var['id']` | `$var['id']` or `$var->id` |

Applying an `(array)` cast is valid only when you have a `ObjectModel` instance, for instance `Product`. Otherwise, you already have an array-compliant variable.

```php
public function hookdisplayFooterProduct($params)
{
    /*
    * Depending on the PrestaShop you run, the $product type won't be the same.
    * On PrestaShop 1.7, it can be directly used as an array.
    * 
    * However, if the module is also compatible with PrestaShop 1.6, 1.5...
    * an ObjectModel class will be returned.
    * Casting it as an array *in this specific situation* will allow to cover all cases.
    */
    $product = $params['product'];
    if ($product instanceof Product /* or ObjectModel */) {
        $product = (array) $product;
    }

    // Getting product details.
    echo $product['id'];
}
```

## About getAdminLink and _legacy_link

The 1.7.5 version offers a conversion from legacy links to new migrated Symfony pages. Meaning if you use the `Link::getAdminLink` method somewhere in your modules to access a page that has been migrated, PrestaShop automatically converts it to the new Symfony migrated url.

This prevents module developer to update their links each time a page has been migrated. However in many places the method is not used with the url parameters as arguments. Parameters are concatenated after the getAdminLink call. This can result in wrong conversion use cases, so you might need to refactor the way you use this method.

Example:

```php
    //You shouldn't write
    $link->getAdminLink('AdminOrders') . '&amp;id_order={$order->id|intval}&amp;vieworder';
    
    //But rather
    $link->getAdminLink('AdminOrders', true, [], ['id_customer' => $customer->id|intval, 'viewcustomer' => 1]);
```

Although this won't be a problem for legacy controllers, but as they will get migrated getAdminLink won't work any more if it is not used properly, so we advice you to refactor your getAdminLink beforehand.

You can find more details about this new feature in the [Controller and Routing][controller-routing] page. 

**Links:**

* [Related issue on module Google Ananlytics (GitHub)](https://github.com/PrestaShop/ps_googleanalytics/pull/14/files)

[controller-routing]: {{< relref "1.7/development/architecture/migration-guide/controller-routing.md#more-about-the-legacy-link-property" >}}
