---
title: Backward compatibility with PrestaShop 1.6
menuTitle: Compatibility with 1.6
aliases:
    - /1.7/modules/core_updates/1.6/
---

# Backward compatibility with PrestaShop 1.6

If you plan to develop a module for PrestaShop 1.7 then extending the compatibility with previous major versions of PrestaShop,
it may require some changes before being ready for production.

## Namespaces

PrestaShop 1.6 does not fully support namespaces. They throw some issues when used in specific places.

* In the main class of your module, the keyword `use [...];` will trigger syntax errors when PrestaShop will try to parse the file.
* ObjectModels can't be defined in a namespace. The hook generated while managing this entity will be considered as invalid by the `Validate` class and will trigger fatal errors.

## PHP API updates

The visibility of many functions have been switched to `public` between two versions of PrestaShop (i.e `Link::getBaseLink()` which was `protected` then `public` from PS 1.6.1.15). 
We recommend using a static analysis tool like [PhpStan](https://github.com/phpstan/phpstan) to detect these changes.

## Templating

`addCSS` / `addJS` / `jsDef` may not work properly on PrestaShop 1.6.0.* when sending Json data to a template.
We recommend sending your variables without trying to encode them. PrestaShop will handle them and avoid escaping issues with quotes.


```patch
$translations = [
    'dummy1' => 'Example of data',
    'dummy2' => 'Another example of data',
];

Media::addJsDef([
-    'translations' => json_encode($translations),
+    'translations' => $translations, // Data will be encoded by PrestaShop
]);
```

## Module front controllers

There are serveral changes to templating in your module front controllers.

### Getting a proper template for a page

In order to display content properly in your `ModuleFrontController` files, you need to change a way you link to your template file in your `initContent` method:


```patch
- $this->setTemplate('views/templates/front/template.tpl');
+ $this->setTemplate('module:yourmodule/views/templates/front/template.tpl');
```

### Basic structure of a module front page template

If you want your module to display entire page with your own content, basic structure of your `.tpl` looks like this:

```smarty
{extends file='page.tpl'}

{block name='page_header_container'}
Title of the page
{/block}

{block name='page_content'}
Content of the page
{/block}
```

[Template inheritance](https://devdocs.prestashop.com/1.7/themes/reference/template-inheritance/) is powerful mechanism available from v1.7 of PrestaShop.

More informations about front office and templating available [here](https://devdocs.prestashop.com/1.7/modules/creation/displaying-content-in-front-office/#embedding-a-template-in-the-theme) and [here](https://devdocs.prestashop.com/1.7/themes/).


