---
title: File structure for a PrestaShop module
weight: 2
---

# File structure for a PrestaShop module

A module is made of a lot of files, all stored in a folder that bears
the same name as the module, that folder being in turn stored in the
`/modules` folder at the root of the main PrestaShop folder:
`/modules/name_of_the_module/`.

Here are the possible files and folders for a PrestaShop 1.7 module:

```
➜  module tree -L 3
.
├── config
│   └── services.yml
├── config.xml
├── controllers
├── logo.png
├── module_name.php
├── override
├── themes
│   └── theme_name
│       └── modules
├── translations
├── upgrade
└── views
    ├── css
    ├── img
    ├── js
    └── templates

13 directories, 4 files
```

#### Main file: `module_name.php`

The main PHP file should have the same name as the module’s root folder. For instance, for the BlockCMS module:

* Folder name: /modules/blockcms
* Main file name: /modules/blockcms/blockcms.php

#### Configuration files: `config.xml` and `services.yml`

If it does not exist yet, `config.xml` file is automatically generated by PrestaShop when the module is installed.

In `services.yml` file, you can register your own classes as a Symfony service and alter the ones provided by PrestaShop.

#### Icon file: `logo.png`

This needs to be a 32*32 pixels PNG file.

#### Templating: the `views` folder

This folder contains your module’s template files (.tpl or .html.twig files).

Depending on what you need to override, your files are located in differents subfolders:

* `/views/templates/admin`: For template files used by the module’s administration *legacy* controllers.
* `/views/templates/front`: For template files used by the module’s front office controllers.
* `/views/templates/hook`: For template files used by the module’s hooks.

If you want to override a Twig template file from Back Office, declare your own following the same path in
`/views/PrestaShop` subfolder. For instance, if you want to override `product.html.twig` template located in `Admin/Product/ProductPage`, create your own file in `/views/PrestaShop/Admin/ProductPage/product.html.twig`.

Every asset you need to use in the module (css, js or image files) must be located in their folders: `/views/{js, css, img}`.

#### Make actions and pages: the `controllers` folder

This folder contains the Controller files. You can use the same sub-folder paths as for the View files. 

For instance, `/modules/module_name/controllers/front/payment.php` is a valid path to share an action with your Front Office.

#### Override Core classes of PrestaShop: the `override` folder

> Try to avoid the overriding of Core classes, this make the upgrade of your application risky.

You need to follow the same path as the PrestaShop application.

For instance, if `/modules/module_name/override/classes/Shop.php` exists and is not overriden by any more module later, this class will be used instead of the native `ShopCore.php` class everywhere in your application.

#### Translate your strings: the `translations` folder

This folder contains a php file for each locale: `fr.php`, `es.php`. You can contribute to the translations using the Back Office.

#### Adapt behavior of others modules: the `themes/theme_name/modules` folder

This folder is essential during modifications of an existing module, so that you can adapt it without having to touch its original files. Notably, it enables you to handle the module’s template files in various ways, depending on the current theme.

#### Manage the upgrade: the `upgrade` folder

When releasing a new version of the module, the older might need an upgrade of its data or files. This can be done using this folder.


> Only the three first are necessary for a basic module: the main file, the cache configuration file (which is autogenerated by PrestaShop anyway) and the icon file. All the other ones can be used if necessary, but a module can work without them.

> The module can also as many other files and folders as necessary: `/css`, `/img`, `/js`, etc.

### External libraries

If wish to use an external library, it should be put in a dedicated
folder.

That folder can use one of these names: 'lib', 'libs', 'libraries',
'sdk', 'vendor', 'vendors'.

Choose the most appropriate one for your library (indeed, 'libraries'
doesn't not have the same meaning as 'sdk'). You can have more than one
such folder, for instance `/lib` and `/sdk`.
